# Implementation of Clustering with K-Means Algorithm Using PySpark for Analysis of Household Electricity Meter Data
This project involves the implementation of clustering with the K-Means algorithm using PySpark for the analysis of household electricity meter data. The data used in our research is household electricity meter data obtained from measurements in a house in Sceaux, Paris, France, available on the UCI Machine Learning Repository website. This data contains information on electricity usage over 47 months from December 2006 to November 2010, with a total of 1,048,575 records. In this project, data preprocessing was carried out to select relevant variables, transform data, and clean data. The variables used focus on active energy submetering 1, sub-metering 2, and sub-metering 3, which represent electricity consumption in various areas: the kitchen, laundry room, and the usage of electric water heaters and air conditioning.
Result: Individual household electricity consumption data shows clustering patterns based on three sub-metering variables: sub-metering 1, sub-metering 2, and sub-metering 3. This data was grouped using the K-Means algorithm into three clusters or groups.
- Cluster 0 (purple) groups households with relatively low energy consumption for all submetering.
- Cluster 1 (green) groups households with more varied energy consumption across all three sub-metering variables. However, there is a significant energy usage on submetering 3.
- Cluster 2 (yellow) groups households with high energy consumption for all sub-metering variables. However, the power usage for sub-metering 1 remains relatively low.
